---
title: "Qlapoti: Simple and Efficient Translation of Quaternion Ideals to Isogenies"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/qlapoti
excerpt: 'Qlapoti is a novel algorithm that efficiently translates quaternion ideals to isogenies, enabling faster computations in post-quantum cryptography.'
date: 2025-08-10
venue: '<i>ASIACRYPT 2025</i>'
paperurl: 'https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/1604'
citation: 'Borin, G., Corte-Real Santos, M., Eriksen, J.K., Invernizzi, R., Mula, M., Schaeffler, S. and Vercauteren, F. "Qlapoti: Simple and Efficient Translation of Quaternion Ideals to Isogenies". <i>ASIACRYPT 2025</i>.'
authors: 'Borin, G., Corte-Real Santos, M., Eriksen, J.K., Invernizzi, R., Mula, M., Schaeffler, S. and Vercauteren, F.'
layout: default
public: true
preprint: false
doi: 
code: 
award: 
---

## Abstract 

The main building block in isogeny-based cryptography is an
algorithmic version of the Deuring correspondence, called IdealToIsogeny. This
algorithm takes a left $\O$-ideal $J$ with $\O = \End(E)$ the endomorphism ring
of a supersingular elliptic curve $E / \FF_{p^2}$ and computes the associated
isogeny $\varphi_J: E \rightarrow E'$. IdealToIsogeny is used in key generation
and in the signing algorithm of digital signature schemes such as SQIsign and
PRISM. Based on ideas from QFESTA, Page and Robert introduced the Clapoti
framework and showed that, if one can efficiently construct two equivalent
ideals $I_1, I_2 \sim J$ whose norm satisfies the equation $\n{I_1} + \n{I_2} =
2^e$ with $2^e < p$, then an efficient IdealToIsogeny follows easily.
Unfortunately, the current state of the art is unable to efficiently solve this
norm equation, and instead can only handle the more relaxed version $u \cdot
\n{I_1} + v \cdot \n{I_2} = 2^e$ with $u, v \in \ZZ_{>0}$. There are two main
downsides to this approach: first, it requires auxiliary isogenies of degrees
$u$ and $v$ making it slower than necessary. Second, although the equation is
more relaxed, the failure probability is still quite high, e.g., $2^{-8}$ in the
basic version of SQIsign. To lower this to $2^{-60}$, SQIsign introduces 6 extra
starting curves, resulting in a more complex algorithm, higher memory usage and
code bloat. The main contribution of this paper is a very simple and efficient
algorithm called Qlapoti that solves the norm equation $\n{I_1} + \n{I_2} = 2^e$
directly. Furthermore, for the NIST security levels $\lambda = 128, 196, 256$
Qlapoti has cryptographic negligible failure probability of less than $2^{-1.5
\lambda}$. Since we no longer require auxiliary isogenies, our Sagemath and
(preliminary) \texttt{C} implementations show that Qlapoti is $2.5\times$ faster
than the state of the art. Integrating Qlapoti into SQIsign and PRISM results in
a $1.9\times$ faster key generation and $1.7\times$ faster signing operation.
The resulting code is also much simpler and smaller, since auxiliary curves are
no longer required. The memory usage is lower by a factor ranging from $2.2$ to
$6.3$ depending on the NIST security level. Finally, due to the
cryptographically negligible failure probability, the security analysis of
SQIsign and PRISM becomes much cleaner.
