---
title: "Hermine: An Efficient Lattice-based FROST-like Threshold Signature"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/hermine-paper
excerpt: 'A lattice-based threshold signature scheme with the full feature set of FROST.'
date: 2026-03-03
venue: 'Cryptology Eprint Archive'
paperurl: 'http://eprint.iacr.org/2026/419'
citation: 'Borin, G., Celi, S., del Pino, R., Espitau, T., Katsumata, S., Niot, G., Prest, T. and Takemure, K. "Hermine: An Efficient Lattice-based FROST-like Threshold Signature". <i>Cryptology Eprint Archive</i>.'
authors: 'Borin, G., Celi, S., del Pino, R., Espitau, T., Katsumata, S., Niot, G., Prest, T. and Takemure, K.'
layout: default
public: true
preprint: true
doi: 
code: 
award: 
---

## Abstract

Threshold signatures have regained a strong interest recently, driven by
applications in cryptocurrencies and NIST's ongoing call for threshold schemes.
Among them, FROST --- a \emph{classical} threshold Schnorr signature scheme
already in real-world deployment --- stands out. Its appeal lies in three core
features: \emph{partially non-interactive signing}, \emph{non-interactive
identifiable abort (IA)}, and \emph{proactive security}. In contrast, while
\emph{post-quantum} (PQ) threshold signatures have seen significant advances in
recent years, no existing scheme simultaneously provides even two of these
features. Considering the imminent need to migrate to PQ cryptography, this
state-of-the-art remains unsatisfactory. 

In this work, we propose Hermine, a lattice-based threshold signature that
offers the full feature set of FROST under standard lattice assumptions.
Hermine is designed to efficiently support the \textsf{Medium} scale of parties
($N \le 64$) as defined in the NIST threshold call, producing a small
Raccoon signature of size $11$~KB. Our main technical contribution is
introducing an \emph{everywhere-short} secret sharing, which splits a
\emph{short} secret vector $\vecs \in \cR_q^\ell$ into \emph{short} shares
and admits a \emph{short} linear reconstruction algorithm. While the resulting
construction appears intuitive, its security proof requires a non-trivial,
fine-grained analysis of the information on $\vecs$ that is inherently leaked by
the short shares. Furthermore, we formalize game-based unforgeability and IA
definitions with proactive security, which may be of independent interest. 
